---
title: "The Two-hit Theory"
pubDate: 2025-01-13
author: "Juanjo Hurtado"
description: "A strategy for breaking the ice & meeting new people."
tags: ["Thoughts", "Relationships"]
---

Picture this: You go to a party with a good friend of yours, but you don’t know anybody else. You start looking around, and you realize everybody else is also coming in pairs or three-group people. 
And hey! Let’s just say that you even see a pretty girl on the other side of the room with her friends, but you instantly say to yourself: “I would like to talk to her, but how do I break the ice without being weird?”. And here, my friend, is where the Two-hit Theory comes in.

The Two-hit Theory basically says that little random natural interactions break the ice for you, and makes you closer to the other person (even if you don’t know them). Resulting in making the whole experience of meeting new people as natural as talking to your all-time friend in the morning.

So, following the previous scenario of going to a party when you only know your friend and you want to talk to a pretty girl you never met before, the Two-hit Theory will look something like this.

You naturally get close to her. Maybe you realize she is by the drinks table, or close to an interesting place you can come close to. And when you are there, say, filling yourself a cup of water, you say anything to her that comes to you naturally. You don’t need to recite her a poem, nor a Pulitzer-winning quote. You just have to be you.
Personally, I often find it easy & nice to give a simple compliment to the person. Let’s say the girl you like has beautiful eyes, or a nice sweater, or… man! You can complement everything.
The key is that it must come up naturally. You just come by, say something like “Hey! Your sneakers are cool” or whatever pops into your mind at that moment, and **walk away** (key emphasis on walk away. You must give the other person time to realize that you’re nice and not weird & deperate).

What probably happens is that she would smile, thank you; and you, my friend, would have made **your first hit**. With this, believe it or not, you unconsciously become “her fourth best friend” in the room (since she only knows the three friends she came with). So, if she is in a situation of talking to somebody else in the room that isn't the three friends she already knows, it would probably be you.
And now, you leave the rest to unfold naturally.
Like with her, you begin to make “first hits” with more people, and the odds are that you will come into her naturally once again at the party (and make a bunch of new friends in the process). And when you do so, you make **your second hit**, like you did the first time. Maybe you embrace a little short talk or crack a joke. Once again, the key is to simply be you.

And when you have two-hits, you’re good to go. The next time you see her, you can present yourself without being weird. Because the ice would already be broken.

And hey! Here we talked about a romantic-ish scenario. But the two-hit theory applies to every kind of relationship. Professionally, friendships, romantically, you name it.
You’ll be surprised of the amazing people you’ll get to know by breaking the ice naturally & embracing others authentically.